We kick off the interviews with Devin Peterson from Ponder.
Ponder is taking Modin, a distributed compute library for Python, and pushing data science
compute directly into the database.
Welcome.
Welcome to Talk Python here on Startup Row.
Thank you.
Yeah, it's fantastic to have you here.
You know, we met yesterday here at PyCon US, and you were telling me about your project,
and how it's built upon Modin, the open source project.
And as I looked around, I'm like,
everyone here has a story.
And I just thought it'd be so great to have you on the show
along with all the others and just kind of tell your story.
You know, how did you get here to start up Rho at PyCon?
- Yeah, it's interesting.
So Modin started as my PhD project
and I was doing my PhD at Berkeley
and I started in the genomics world,
trying to build large-scale data science tools
for the people who actually do the science.
I'm not a biologist myself.
I don't know the first thing about biology, honestly.
- But you got some good programming skills
and they can always use that applied to their data, right?
- Right, right.
The problem was we were building tools in Spark
and it was really hard for these Spark-like APIs
to translate natively to the way
that they were reasoning about data.
And like, they're using Python.
And so there's a very kind of natural way
that scientists think about interacting with data
that's not Spark, right?
It's not as intuitive as intuitive in Spark,
even PySpark, right?
- So a lot of Python people avoid databases
as much as they can,
at least SQL and directly talking to them like that.
- Yeah, totally, because like often the way,
when you're exploring data,
you have a mental model of how you want to interact
with the data.
And that is not SQL often.
Like it's just the way that it is.
- Yeah, yeah.
- So yeah, I had a moment there
where a data scientist was like,
if I don't want your tool, can you just make my tool run faster?
And so I was like, ah, yes, wait a second.
This is actually a real project.
And so I started like looking into pandas and looking into like, you know,
the world of, you know, databases and like the kind of academic space.
And nobody had really dug that deep into pandas because in the academic sense,
everybody was like, okay, pandas is just a bad database.
That's what database people thought at the time.
So we did a bunch of work and it kind of turned out that's not the case.
They're totally new things.
And so from there, we built Modin and now with Ponder,
we're kind of extending that to basically bridge these two worlds
where you can use Python, but we're generating SQL on the back end
and able to run pandas directly in your database or your data warehouse.
Yeah, fantastic.
So when I first heard about what you're doing at Ponder,
I immediately thought of Dask.
And Dask is another popular startup success,
open source startup success story
with Matthew Rockland and Forman Coil and stuff.
And I mean, I think they may have outgrown Startup Row,
but you know, good for them.
- Yeah, totally.
- My first thought was,
okay, well, how is this different than Dask?
But the big difference is Dask is grid computing
and yours runs in the database.
- Yeah, for Ponder definitely.
Open source modem also integrates
with Dask clusters as well.
So Dask has Dask DataFrame, and that runs on Dask clusters.
We can also run a mode and open source on Dask clusters.
It's very important to us that whatever infrastructure
that you have, you can run pandas on top of that.
So Ponder is the next level of that,
where if your data is in the database,
it doesn't leave, right?
We can just execute it directly there.
And all of your assumptions from Python and pandas
hold true in the database,
even though the database actually doesn't like
the assumptions that you might have in pandas, right?
We emulate those behaviors and we've done a lot of work
to actually make that feel very native.
So that is a key difference with Ponder and Dask though,
is that your data never leaves the database.
So you don't have to have a separate Dask cluster
to kind of pull the data into and execute on it there.
You can just run things natively
in the database or the data warehouse.
- So if you have a large database,
you already have a probably powerful database server,
why transfer all the data off of that,
load it into something else,
analyze it and throw it away, right?
- Exactly. - Make it run there.
- Exactly, exactly.
- Yeah, so maybe a quick elevator pitch type of thing
might be like, you all take pandas
and turn it into SQL statements that run on the database,
but people get a program in pandas.
- Yes, exactly. - Is that more or less it?
- That's exactly it, yes.
Some things that are really, really native in pandas,
like describe, for example, df.describe.
Super, super common.
- It seems easy, like it just gives me some summary stats.
- Yes, exactly.
That's 300 lines of SQL.
But you wouldn't believe it looking at it though, because you know, it seems so
simple and it's, it is a simple, simple output, right?
I want to get some summary statistics for my data, but SQL is so declarative
and the language itself doesn't lend itself well to this type of iterative,
interactive kind of like workflow.
So.
And the notebooks remember step by step, they have like a history sort of a
memory, whereas SQLs, every statement is standalone.
Exactly.
So all or nothing basically, and you have to do the whole thing up front.
And that's the thing people love about pandas is that you can
incrementally build these things up.
So, so we're giving that interface to SQL basically.
Awesome.
All right.
Well, let's wrap this up with a bit of a, a bit of a talk, how you got to start a pro.
How'd you start this company?
Where are you?
Like so many people are excited to take their open source work and instead
of making it their side job or something they do part-time at their company,
make it their full-time energy.
I, and you're there.
How'd you do it?
Yeah.
So the way that we started was we talked to a lot of companies
where they basically asked us, can you
make this work on top of our infrastructure?
We didn't support-- we only supported in the open source
brand ask.
And we saw a motion there to have kind of an open core model.
So we follow the open core model where
these more enterprise-y features,
like security features and being able to push into data
warehouses, right?
like an individual, you know, consultant may not have,
you know, a data warehouse, they probably don't, right?
But enterprises do.
And these are the types of features
that enterprises really care about.
So this open core model, I think,
lended itself really well to our business,
particularly because, you know,
enterprises will pay for these features.
And so, yeah, and then we went out
and we raised a seed round and, you know,
solve the opportunity to come here and be in PyCon startup row.
And fortunately, you know, it's a competitive process.
Really it is.
Yeah.
We're, we're very, we feel very fortunate to be, you know, chosen
among the few that are chosen here, but yeah, that's kind of our journey
is, is basically, you know, starting talking like, so for folks out there
who are like interested in this, talk to people who are using this, people
who are interested in the problem that you're solving and figure out where
the gaps are and kind of ask questions.
Don't be afraid to ask, like, would you pay for this?
Or how much would you pay for this?
Those, those questions they're uncomfortable to ask.
And like, especially as a developer, who's not used to presenting salesy
type marketing things, you are, salespeople as kind of, yuck.
I got it.
It's a necessary evil.
Totally.
It totally is.
Yeah.
So, but, but you have to ask, because how do you know if you can kind of take that
next step, unless you ask, Hey, would you pay $50 a month for this?
Would you pay $10 a month for this?
Right.
you can't know unless you really go out there and ask.
So that's what I would encourage folks to do
if they're interested in this is, you know,
find those gaps and really ask the hard questions
that are kind of hard, but yeah.
- Awesome, well, congratulations.
Thanks for taking the time to talk to us.
- Thank you, thank you.
- Yeah, you bet, bye.
Next up is Generally Intelligent and Josh Albrecht.
Generally Intelligent is an independent research company
developing AI agents with general intelligence
that can be safely deployed in the real world.
(silence)
- Josh, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- Hey, thanks.
- Hey, it's great to have you here.
Tell people quickly who you are.
- Yeah, so I'm Josh, Josh Albrecht.
I'm the CTO of Generally Intelligent.
We're an AI research company based in San Francisco.
- Awesome, I love the humbleness.
Generally, generally intelligent, right?
You're not a super genius, but no, it's a clever name.
I like it. - Thank you.
- Yeah, yeah.
And what's the problem you're solving here?
- Yeah, we, you know, kind of, as it says on the tin,
like we're working on artificial general intelligence.
We don't usually like to use that term
'cause it can mean lots of different things
to lots of different people,
but in general, what we're working on
is making more capable, safer, more robust AI systems.
And in particular, we're focused on agents,
so systems that can act on their own.
And like right now, mostly what we're focused on
is agents that can work kind of in your browser,
on your desktop, in your code editor,
those kind of virtual environments and digital environments.
How much of this are you envisioning running locally
versus running on a big cluster in the cloud?
- Yeah, I think it'd be nice someday in the future
to have things run totally locally,
but right now a lot of these technologies
do require a large cluster of GPUs,
which are very expensive,
and most people don't even have a GPU
or have a bunch of GPUs at home,
so it's kind of hard to actually get it running locally.
Hopefully someday in the future we'll be able to do that,
but for now you'll probably need internet access
to use a lot of these things.
- Right, okay, so you're envisioning
a bunch of these agents that have access to an API
that can quickly respond over there.
OK, so give us some ideas.
- Yeah, so what this looks like concretely,
you can imagine like a coding agent.
So one thing you can do with GitHub Copilot right now
is you can write a function declaration
in a doc string and have it generate the function.
But you can imagine for a coding agent,
you can not only generate the function,
but also generate some tests, run those tests,
see errors in those tests, try and fix the errors,
kind of do that whole life cycle to ideally give you
a output that's actually a lot better.
And then also, if you're thinking about this as an agent,
maybe it's more of a back and forth.
It's not just an auto-complete in your editor,
but it can come back to you and say,
you know, I'm sort of uncertain about this part here.
What did you mean?
Or, hmm, like, you know, I wrote these tests,
but I'm not sure if it's quite what you wanted.
Or maybe it's kind of running in the background
and flagging different things
that it sees in your code base.
Like maybe you made some change
and it can detect that your doc string is out of date
and kind of flag that for you.
So thinking about it more as like an actual pair programmer.
- Okay, is it primarily focused on, yeah.
Are you thinking to focus mostly on programming
or is it more broad like,
I'm looking for a great deal on this classic car.
Go scour the internet and negotiate it for me.
- Yeah, so the company is generally intelligent
so we certainly do want to be able to address
all these different use cases over time.
I think for us right now,
one of the domains that we are interested in is code,
especially because it's so objective.
you can know if it's right or wrong,
you have tests, that sort of stuff.
So it's a nice playground for ourselves
and something that we can build for ourselves
to kind of iterate on internally.
But we're not exactly sure what the final product will be.
We're also training our own kind of large language models.
We might productize some stuff around those.
So there's lots of possibilities.
We're not wedded to anything yet.
Thankfully, we have the luxury to kind of
take a little bit of time to figure that out
as a research company.
- Yeah, that's excellent.
What about science?
- Yeah, science is definitely a thing
that we're interested in.
It's pretty hard and so, you know,
do we necessarily want these things like,
running around making things in test tubes or whatever,
I think that's probably a little bit harder than coding,
and coding's already pretty hard.
So I think we'll get there.
That's some of the stuff that we,
personally on the team, are really excited about,
to see how can we use these to uncover new cures
for diseases or whatever.
I'm really excited for that kind of stuff
a little further in the future.
- Yeah, that'd be amazing.
I was just talking to someone on the expo floor hall here
about protein folding.
Right, that kind of stuff.
That's kind of been elusive for people.
They'd be more or less have just tried to brute force it.
Right, with the folding at home thing.
Let's just run every computer and just try every possibility.
There's a lot of possibilities.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
- All right, so where's Python fitting here?
What are some of the tools that you're using?
- Yeah, so Python is, we love Python.
We basically write everything in Python, or Bash,
but mostly Python.
Or Python generates a little bit of Bash,
but it's mostly Python.
So yeah, we use a lot of PyTorch for our models.
And then other than that, let's see,
what other libraries do we use?
I mean, we use tons of Python libraries,
like NumPy and Scikit and Adders.
There's so many wonderful things that people have built
that we just-- yeah, they're just so nice to work with.
So we love the Python.
You can kind of take it, open it up, look at all the source,
and really understand everything in that full stack.
For us doing research, that's really
valuable to be able to know everything that's going on.
You have these Lego block types of things.
Like, what if we arranged it like this?
You don't have to write the whole machine learning bit.
You can click a few pieces together, and off it goes.
Yeah, we build on top of Mosaic, for example,
or other open source libraries that people put together
for training stuff and kind of adapt it for yourself.
It's so nice that you can just pull things in
and so easily change everything.
- Yeah, awesome.
I must have somehow blinked along the way
and these large language models
just seem to have come out of nowhere
and all of a sudden, you know,
AI is one of these things, it's kind of worked,
kind of recommended stuff, and now all of a sudden
it's mind-bogglingly good.
- Yeah.
- Do things like TensorFlow and stuff
work with these large language models?
Or do you need other libraries?
- Yeah, so TensorFlow and PyTorch
are probably the two main machine learning libraries
that people do deep learning systems on top of.
Pretty sure that GPT-3 and GPT-4 were probably
trained on top of PyTorch.
I think a lot of the stuff at Google, like Palm and Bard
and those types of things are trained on TensorFlow.
But at the end of the day, they're actually very similar.
And they're sort of converging to kind of similar ideas
too as well.
So it's interesting to see them evolve.
- Yeah, fantastic.
All right, last question, close out our conversation here.
We're sitting here on Startup Row.
just outside of startup row, I suppose.
But there's a bunch of people out here
who are working on open source projects
who would like to somehow find a way
to make it their passion, their job,
spend more time on it, maybe make it a company.
How'd you get here?
Tell people your journey.
- Yeah, so we got here in a little bit of a different route.
So a lot of us were working at a previous company
called Sorceress that did more of an applied
machine learning thing, where we are taking machine learning
and applying it to the job of recruiting
and trying to figure out, can we find good people online
that might be a good fit for a particular position
and reach out to them and get them interested in the job
and that sort of stuff.
We went through YC with this in 2017
and we raised our series A.
Eventually, it was growing.
We had a few million in revenue and customers
and everything.
In 2019, we were looking and it felt like
there's so much really interesting stuff happening
in self-supervised learning, and in deep learning,
and in machine learning.
And it feels like, you know,
recruiting is very important,
but is this going to be the most important thing
in the world?
Is this going to really be the thing that changes the world?
Or will there be something a little bit larger
in this more general purpose AI?
And the more we thought about it,
the more we felt like,
the AI stuff is probably going to have a huge impact.
We should really be working on that.
We kind of wound down the previous company.
A bunch of us moved over and started up
generally intelligent,
and then we've been working on stuff ever since then.
- Fantastic, well, I know you've got some really cool stuff
where the agents can sort of look at the code they're writing,
think about it, evolve, and it's,
it looks like a really interesting take,
so congratulations, and I'll put a link to the,
all your work in the show notes, people can check it out.
- Yeah, sounds good.
- Yeah.
- Thank you very much.
- Yeah, thanks for being here.
- It was great to chat.
- Yeah, you bet.
Now we talk with Mo Sarat from Wairobots.
They're building the database platform
for geospatial analytics and AI.
- Hey Mo, welcome to Talk Python.
- Thank you so much.
- Yeah, it's good to have you here.
Let's start off with a quick introduction.
How are you?
- Absolutely.
So my name is Mo,
and I'm the co-founder and CEO of a company called Warabots.
Warabots' grand vision is enable every organization
to drive value from data via space and time.
- Awesome.
I love it, I love it.
So, yeah, thanks for being here on the show.
Let's dive into whereabouts of what is the problem
you're solving, what are you guys building?
- Think about like, again, every single data record
that is collecting on a daily basis,
even like we're here right now,
we're talking on this podcast at this specific location
at this specific time.
So if you think about the space and time aspect,
it's actually a very important aspect
of every single piece of data that is being collected.
- Right, if we're here next week, who knows what,
why we're here, we could be here for a different reason.
That might mean something different, right?
- Absolutely, yeah, so that's exactly,
So that space and time lens that you can apply to your data
can actually also tell you a better story about your data.
You can drive more value, more insights from your data
if you apply that space and time lens.
And this is basically what we are,
not necessarily like this is exactly
what we focus on in our company.
But more specifically, I mean,
we are trying to build like kind of a database infrastructure
to enable people to use that space and time lens
to drive value from their data.
- Okay, fantastic.
Now, when you talk about space and time and data,
are we talking records in a time series database?
Are we talking regular database or NoSQL?
Or could it be even things like the log file from Engine X
about the visitors to my website?
What's the scope?
The scope is actually very wide.
So think about any data could be structured,
semi-structured, unstructured data that you have.
And as long as it have a geospatial aspect to it,
geospatial aspect to here it means like if the record or the document has was
let's say created in a specific location or represent an event that happened in a
certain location at a certain time or represent like again like an object or
an asset that you monitor at different locations at different times whatever it
is it can be stored in any of these kind of formats as long as it have this kind
a geospatial aspect to it, you can definitely apply that kind of geospatial or space-time
lens to it.
Right, okay, so what are some of the questions you might answer with Orbot?
Questions that varies, I mean, so there are, it depends on the type of the data, it depends
on the use case.
You have a horizontal technology that enables you to enable so many industry verticals,
but I'll give a couple of examples.
Yeah, yeah, make it concrete for us.
Absolutely.
logistics company or a delivery company like the most I mean well-known delivery
companies Amazon right I mean you go to the app you purchase an item or product
and then the whole journey of that product from the supplier to the
warehouse to the driver Amazon driver all the way that makes it to your door
there is a whole kind of everything has a geospatial location to it attached to
it the package is moving around you're located somewhere their house is a
certain location handling the logistics behind all of that understanding how
things are you're monitoring all these assets in space and time as it reaches
the door this whole journey there's a lot of kind of data processing data
analytics happening that you have to do through again the geospatial kind of
aspect that you spatial contextual aspect of things so this is one example
another example could be if you're like an insurance company and you're
insuring homes for example and you want to understand what are the nearby kind
of climate conditions natural disaster conditions compared to your home this
also the home has a location these kind of natural disaster weather changes at
different locations all the time that will impact how you take decisions about
insuring these homes. Do I buy it? Do insurers want to insure it?
Exactly. So that's another example again that the space and time
lengths or the geospatial aspect impacts your decision when it comes to taking
it's an important decision that you take in here. So that's another example. So
these are just a couple use cases but there are tons of other use cases and
and use cases that may not exist even yet. So there's a lot of movement now
into climate tech and ag tech.
And we are like, what we're trying to do at WeraBots
is we're building the database infrastructure
that enable the next generation,
climate tech and agriculture technology.
- So they can ask the questions that they might have,
but you already have the machinery to answer them.
- We have machinery to answer them.
And they build their own secret sauce
on top of our infrastructure.
- So it's kind of a framework platform.
- Absolutely, yeah.
- Got it. - Yeah.
- So Python, where's Python fit in this story?
That's a great question.
So geospatial data or the geospatial aspect of data
has existed for so long, as you said.
We live in the space-time continuum.
Everything has a space-time aspect, geospatial aspect.
But-- and that's why developers already have APIs
to interact with geospatial data.
And these APIs, the language varies.
So there are some people that use SQL to interact
with the data, process the data in either SQL databases
or any other kind of SQL processing engine, right?
But a lot of the geospatial developers or people developing with geospatial data, they use Python.
There are so many libraries that use Python to actually...
Example of these libraries is a library called Geopandas. It's a fantastic library.
It's an extension to Pandas to kind of frangle and crunch geospatial data.
Ask questions about what things are contained in here,
what things are outside of here, how far away is it?
Absolutely. So this is what Geopandas does.
The only problem is that Geopandas is a library,
has a great functionality, but again, it doesn't...
It's not enterprise-ready for the most part,
it doesn't scale, all that kind of stuff.
So what we do at Robots is that we provide
SQL API to the user to run spatial queries on the data,
but we also provide a spatial Python API.
Like if you're using Geopandas, you can use the same API,
do the heavy lifting, enterprise scale,
kind of processing of the data using our platform,
and then do the major Geopanda's kind of functionality
you're familiar with to, again,
do the geospatial processing with it.
So this is how it fits within Python.
And actually, looking at our,
we have an open-source software called Apache Sedona.
It's an Apache under the Apache license,
and it has all these APIs, SQL and Python,
and Python is the most popular.
So it's been the Python package alone on PyPy
is being downloaded a million times over on a monthly basis as we're speaking today.
So definitely Python fits very well within our...
- Yeah, that's awesome. - Absolutely.
So it sounds like your business, Wearbots, is a little bit following the OpenCore model, you say?
- Yes. - Let's round out our conversation here with a...
Talking about the business itself, how do you get a startup, Ro?
We follow the OpenCore model, you're totally right about that.
So we have our open source software Apache Sedona.
It's available for free open source, very permissive license, the Apache license 2.0.
And it's open source, it's also used in operational production in so many use cases.
There are so many contributors outside. I'm the original creator of it,
as well as my partner, Jia.
We're both the original creators, but it's grew beyond us now.
So there are like dozens, like 100 contributors now, something like this.
And we use Sedona as an open core,
but we build a whole platform around it.
So if you want to think about what we do
compared to the other data platforms in the market,
there are generic data platforms like Snowflake Databricks.
There are more specific, specialized data platforms
like MongoDB for NoSQL.
There's Neo4j for Graph.
We are-- World of Bots is like
the data platform for Geospatial.
So this is basically--
And we use Apache Sedona as an open core
to enable us to do all of this.
Fantastic. Alright, well,
congratulations on being here.
I wish you success with the whole project.
Thanks for coming on the show.
Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Looking forward to it.
Thank you so much.
Bye.
who have created Python programmable spreadsheets
that are super powered with Python and AI.
I gotta tell you, this product looks super awesome.
It looks so much better than things like Google Sheets
or Excel, and I can't wait to get a chance to play with it.
Hey guys.
- Hello.
- Welcome to Talk Python.
- Yeah.
- It's great to have you here.
First, introduce yourselves.
- Thanks for having us.
I'm Dawa, I've been doing Python professionally
for, I don't know, 20 years or so.
- I'm Jack, I'm Dawa's co-founder.
Been doing Python a little less than that,
but met Dawa about five years ago,
and we founded Neptune about a year ago.
- Yeah, so let's dive into Neptune.
What's the product, what's the problem you're solving?
- Yeah, the proposition that we have
is pretty straightforward.
we build a spreadsheet on top of a Jupyter notebook engine,
which basically gives you all the data science superpowers
that the notebook gives you
in a familiar spreadsheet environment,
which means that you can share your work
as a Python programmer much easier
with people that are not familiar with notebooks
because they have the universal data canvas
of a spreadsheet.
>> How interesting, because one of the big challenges
data scientists often have is they work in Jupyter,
they work in Jupyter, and then some executive wants to share it at a presentation, or they
want to continue working on it, but they're not developers.
So what do you do?
You write an Excel file, and you hand that off, and then you re-import it somewhere,
maybe?
I don't know.
Yeah, yeah.
The typical flow is very much like you write out a CSV, you email that to the person that
is going to put it into Excel, that person then creates a graph in Excel, screenshot
that's graphed in Excel and sends it to the person that puts it in the presentation
and then the CEO can do something with it.
It goes either in PowerPoint or it goes in Word.
Yeah, one of those two, right? Probably the picture.
But that's a bunch of steps that are disassociated from data.
So that's one problem, right? That's the one problem.
But since no one really sees your product in action while we're talking here,
maybe just a bit of an explanation.
It looks very much like Google Docs,
or one of the online Excel,
I say Docs, I mean Sheets,
one of the online spreadsheet things.
It doesn't look like something embedded into notebooks.
Yeah, that's right.
It is a spreadsheet first and foremost.
It looks a lot like Google Sheets,
but you can run Python in it.
You can run Python both directly in the spreadsheet cells.
You can also define other functionality in Python
and then run that with your spreadsheet.
- Yeah, I mean, to me, that's where the magic is, right?
Like, Excel or sheets, the spreadsheets more broadly,
are super useful, but it's always like,
"Hmm, how do I do an if statement
"in this dreaded thing again?
"And how do I do a max with a..."
You know, just all the programming aspect
of going beyond just having raw data
is just like, "Oh boy, this is..."
And you just showed me an example where like,
here, you just write range of a thing
and boom, it just writes that out.
or you write up Python tertiary statement,
and it just runs.
- Right, yeah, but also common things in spreadsheets
that are hard are data cleaning, right?
You get some data from somewhere,
and it's not quite right,
and most of the time, people end up doing this by hand.
And that's fine the first time you do it,
the second time and the third time, it gets very annoying.
While if you just write a little bit of Python,
you can clean data like that,
and then the next time you have the data,
you just rerun the script and it's clean again.
So that's a very powerful way of doing this thing.
And we have a full Python environment.
It's not just a lightweight, you know, runs in the browser.
You can do pip install anything you want.
So you can connect to any API out there,
use any data, export any data.
It's a complete environment.
- Yeah, how interesting.
There's a little window where you can write straight Python,
you know, def some function that does arbitrary Python,
and then you can invoke it like a function in the spreadsheet, right?
Exactly.
And you can talk to things on the internet?
For example, I could do web scraping there?
Just call an API, like a currency API?
Yeah, exactly.
Okay.
Yeah, any REST call you want to make,
you just import requests and go for it.
Wow.
So where does it run?
Is this a PyScript, Pyodide?
Is this Sculpt? Is this Docker?
- It's all running in a Docker container, server side.
That's how it works.
And we do that for maximum flexibility,
maximum capability.
So it means that anything you can install,
anything you can run on a Jupyter notebook
running on Linux, you can run in Neptune.
- I see, so we get full Python 3.11 or 3.10
or whatever it is.
- Yep, yep.
And we ship with a bunch of useful packages pre-installed,
but if you want to install something else,
you just open up our dependency management window,
install anything else you want to use.
It's all very manageable, very configurable.
- Well, it looks super good to me.
What's the user model?
Do I go and create an account on your site
and it's kind of like Google Docs or what's the story?
- Yep, exactly.
You can try it out.
You can go to neptine.com in the upper right,
just click log in.
You can create an account.
It's totally free to use the free tier.
Yeah, give it a shot.
- Awesome.
All right, final question.
How did you guys get here to start up Rho?
Everyone wants to build something amazing with open source,
but how did you turn that into a business
and something you can put your full time into?
- I mean, I guess we're kind of lucky in that
when we started, I pitched it to a bunch of people
that due to no fault of their own got into some money
and they were willing to back us.
and then later we joined YC for the winter batch.
- Awesome.
- And in that process, we, you know,
got a little bit of publicity
and were picked up for the startup role.
- Just to add to that too,
based on our experience in Y Combinator,
there are lots of open source tools out there
that are able to get started on some commercial path,
just based on the community that they're building,
based on the users.
- Right, right.
- It's a very good path.
I feel like this whole open core business model
has really taken off in the last couple of years
where it used to be a PayPal donate button
and now it's a legitimate offering that businesses will buy
and it's good.
I think it's very positive.
So I'm really impressed with what you guys built.
I think it's awesome.
I think people really like it.
Yeah, so good luck.
Thanks for being here.
- Thank you so much.
- Now up is next up.
We have Federer Co Garza and Christian Tschula here to tell us about their time series startup
ready to make predictions based on an open source time series ecosystem.
Hey there.
Hello.
Welcome to Talk Python.
Let's start with introductions.
Who are you?
So I am Christian Tschalu.
I'm a co-founder of Nixla.
Yep.
Hello, I'm Federer.
I'm CTO and co-founder of Nixla.
Nice to meet you both.
Hello, I'm Fedim, I'm CTO and co-founder of Nixla.
Welcome to the show.
Really great to have you here at PyCon.
And yeah, let's start with the problem you all are trying to solve.
Okay, yeah.
So at Nixla, what we do is time series forecasting.
So as you know, time series forecasting is a very relevant task that a lot of companies
and practitioners need to solve,
essentially predicting future values of something, right?
It could be demand of a product or the weather.
So there are many use cases for forecasting.
It's a very common problem in industry.
And essentially, we want to provide tools
to developers, engineers, researchers
to be able to do this more efficiently
and with good practices.
And yeah, that's mostly it.
Right. Okay. So is this a, like a Python API? Is this a database? What's, what is the actual
product? I guess. Yeah.
So we have an ecosystem of Python libraries and we have different libraries for different use
cases. For example, we have the stats forecast library, which is, which specializes in
statistical econometric models.
And also we have a more
complex models and libraries for deep learning
and machine learning applications.
- Nice, and have you trained some of these models yourself
on certain data, things like that?
Or where do you get the models from?
- The idea behind the libraries is that you can use
whatever your data is.
The only restriction is that it must be time series data,
but you can use whatever data you have.
Yeah.
- Okay.
Fantastic.
And where's,
it's data,
Python's at the heart of so much data processing these days.
And, you know, I guess,
give a shout out to all the different Python packages
that you already out there, maybe.
You wanna just give a rundown on those
and what they're for and then talk about them?
Yeah, so we have six packages right now.
They are all libraries on GitHub that you can pip install
or install it with Conda.
And essentially, they focus on different ways
of approaching forecasting.
And they're essentially libraries built on Python.
Depending, some are built on Numba.
Other methods are in Python.
Oh, you guys are using Numba?
Oh, OK.
And it makes a huge difference?
Yeah.
It makes a difference.
All right.
Yeah.
Tell people really, really quickly, what is Numba?
So, Numba is this library which allows you to compile just in time your code.
So, it's a lot faster than using just plain Python.
And how easy is it to use?
It's really easy.
Okay.
Yeah. In fact, we wanted to make our library more efficient and more faster,
and we did it in like two weeks only using Numba.
So, it was really easy to use.
Yeah. Awesome. Awesome.
- Yeah.
- And some other packages uses PyTorch.
So like our deep learning methods,
neural forecasting approaches are built on PyTorch
or PyTorch Lightning.
- Yeah, fantastic.
So would you say that your business model
is something of an open core model
where it's kind of built on top of these libraries and...
- Absolutely, yeah.
So for now we have been focusing on
building these libraries, the community.
We have a very active community on Slack
and people that use us and contribute with our code.
And we are building services on top of these libraries,
like enterprise solutions or hosting computation,
or even simplifying the usage further.
So for example, APIs where you can just simply
pass your data.
I want to know what is going to happen next.
These data--
- Do you pass it some historical data
and ask it to make predictions?
- Make predictions and then we produce the predictions.
- Okay.
- Yeah, this is one of types or...
So we are working on these different applications and services.
Awesome. It sounds really cool.
Thanks.
So final question.
How did you make your way over here to Startup Row at PyCon?
Like, how did you start your company and how did you get here?
Yeah, it has been a long journey.
Long story.
I mean, we have been like for a year working on these libraries and services.
And right now, we are focusing on building the startup, right?
We want to be able to do this full time for a long time and really, yeah, build something
that can help people.
Yeah.
Are you looking to offer an API, like an open AI sort of model or running people's code
as a service or what, where are you thinking you're going?
Yeah.
That's definitely one of the options.
But yeah, we are finishing our funding runs.
And once we finish that--
- Funding helps a lot on software development, right?
- Funding helps a lot on development.
And yeah, so we're exploring different venues.
And there's very exciting things to come.
- All right, well, we all wish you the best of luck
on your project, and thanks for taking the time
to talk to us.
- No, thank you for inviting me.
- Yeah, you bet.
- Thanks. - Bye.
- Bye.
- We'll speak with Piero Molina from PrediBase.
They empower you to rapidly build, iterate,
and deploy ML models with their declarative machine learning platform.
Piero, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
Thank you very much for having me.
Yeah, it's fantastic to have you here. Quick introduction for everyone.
Sure. So, I'm Piero and I'm the CEO of Predebase.
I can tell you about Predebase in a second.
I'm also the author of Ludwig, which is an open source
Python package for training machine learning models.
And, yeah.
Awesome, well, great to meet you.
Tell us about your company.
Yeah, so Predibase tries to solve the problem of the inefficiency
in the development process of machine learning projects.
Usually they take anywhere from six months to a year or even more, depending on the organizations, their degree of expertise in developing machine learning projects.
So with using our platform, companies can get down to,
from months to days of development,
and that makes them substantially faster.
Each machine learning project becomes cheaper,
and organizations and teams
can do many more machine learning projects.
- Yeah, I mean, training is where the time
and the money is spent, at least to computation.
I mean, paying developers is expensive, too,
but in terms of, people say, machine learning or AI,
It takes all this energy and it does take energy to answer questions,
but it really takes energy to train the models, right?
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
There's training models is a huge part.
Managing the data and putting it in a shape and form that is useful for training
the models is also another big piece of the reason why these teams take so long
to develop models and also the usually there's several people involved in the
process.
There are different stakeholders.
Some of them are more machine learning oriented.
Some of them are more engineers.
Some of them may be analysts or product developers
that need to use the models downstream.
And so the handoff of the artifacts
and of the whole process between these different people
is also a source of a lot of friction.
And with the platform that we are building,
we are trying also to reduce the friction
as much as possible.
- Yeah, sounds great.
Is it about managing that workflow
or is it about things like transfer learning
and other more theoretical ideas?
Like, where exactly are you doing this?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So to give you like a little bit more of a picture,
I would say where we are starting from
is from Ludwig, which is his open source project.
And what Ludwig allows people to do,
it allows to define machine learning models and pipelines
in terms of a configuration file.
So you don't need to write the low level
PyTorch or TensorFlow code.
You can just write a configuration that maps
with the schema of your data.
And that's literally all you need to get started.
So it makes it substantially easier and faster
to get started training models.
Then if you are more experienced,
you can go down and change more than 700 parameters
that are there and change all the details of training,
of the models themselves, the pre-processing,
so you have full flexibility and control.
and you can also go all the way down to the Python code,
add your own classes, register them from a decorator,
and they become available in the configuration.
>> Very cool.
>> This is what we have in the open source.
>> Right, right.
>> And what we're building on top of it is all the,
like, again, you can think about this,
like for people who may be familiar with Terraform,
for instance, what Terraform does for infrastructure,
so defining your infrastructure
for like a configuration file,
Ludwig does it for machine learning.
- Got it, okay.
- And so PrediBase, what does it,
it uses this basic concept of models
as configuration really,
and builds on top of it all sorts of infrastructure
that is needed for organizations
that are big enterprises to use it in the cloud.
So we have like, we can deploy on cloud environments,
we abstract away the infrastructure aspect of it,
so you can run the training of your models and inference
on either one small CPU machines
or a thousand large GPU machines
and you don't need to think about it basically.
- Oh cool.
So I just say train it
and if you happen to have GPUs available,
you might use them?
- Right, absolutely.
- Okay, excellent.
So where does PrettyBase fit into this?
Like where's the business side of this product?
- Right, right.
I would say PrettyBase makes it easy for teams really
to develop machine learning products.
As if Ludwig, you can define your own configurations,
but it's like a single user experience, if you want.
Predibase becomes like a multi-user experience,
where again, you deploy on the cloud
and you can connect with data sources.
In Ludwig, you provide like a CSV file or a data frame,
a pandas data frame.
With Predibase, you can connect to Snowflake,
to Databricks, to MySQL databases,
to S3 buckets and do all of those things.
And also there's a notion of model repositories
because when you start to train a model,
the first one is never the last one that you train.
And so in an analogy to Git,
in Git you have commits and you have teams
doing different commits and collaborating together.
In our platform you have multiple models
that are configurations
and multiple people training new different models
spawning from the previous ones.
So there's a lineage of models
that can be compared among each other.
And then the very last piece is that we make it easy to deploy these models with one click of a button.
So you go from the data to the deployed model very, very quickly.
Fantastic. It sounds great.
So final question.
A lot of people out there working in open source,
they'd love to be here on Startup Row talking about their startup based on their project.
It sounds like what you built is based on the open core model,
which seems to be really, really successful these days.
Tell us a bit about how you got here.
Right, so basically I think it started from the open source, really.
I started developing Ludwig when I was working at Uber.
And initially, my own project was a way for myself
for being more efficient and working on the next machine learning project
without reinventing the wheel every single time.
And I built that because I'm lazy and I don't want...
When I do one thing more than twice, then I automate it for myself, really.
Productive laziness or something like this.
And so then other people in the company started using it.
And that convinced me that making it open source,
also because it was built on top of other open source projects,
would have been a great way to both have people contribute to it and improve it,
and also to give back to the community.
Because again, I was using myself a lot of open source projects to build it.
And then from there,
I made it so that we donated the project to Linux Foundation.
So now it's backed by the Linux Foundation,
and also the governance is open
as opposed to what it was before when I was at Uber.
And from there, actually, I met a bunch of people,
some of my co-founders at the company,
thanks to the project.
And we decided that,
so for instance, one of them is Professor Christoph from Stanford.
He was developing a similar system that was closed
internally at Apple.
And so we said, "This thing works at Uber,
works at Apple, works in the open source.
let's make a company out of this, right?
- Fantastic, yeah.
Solving some problems for these big teams, right?
Excellent.
Well, best of luck on your company.
- Thank you very much, man.
- Yeah, thanks for being here.
- Yeah, absolutely, a pleasure.
- Yeah, bye. - Thank you so much.
- We'll finish up our stroll down startup lane
by talking with the folks at Pinecone.
We have Nikhil Rao to talk about the Pure Python
full-stack web app platform that they've built.
Nikhil, welcome to Talk Python.
- Yeah, great to be here.
Thanks for having me.
- It's great to have you here.
I love going through all the different projects
on Startup Row and talking about them
and shedding a little light on them.
So happy to have you here.
Yeah, yeah, give a quick introduction on yourself.
- Yeah, so I'm Nikhil.
I'm the CEO co-founder of Pinecone
and we're building a way to make web apps in pure Python.
So we have an open source framework
and anyone can install this
and basically start creating their apps
front end and back end using Python.
Our company went through the recent Y Combinator batch,
just ended the Winter 23 batch.
And recently we raised our seed round
and starting to hire out and pretty much grow out
our project and company from here.
- Okay, well, awesome.
Congratulations, that sounds really cool.
Give us an idea of, I guess, why do you build this, right?
We've got Flask, we've got Django.
I mean, heck, we even have Ruby if you really want it.
- Yeah, there's a lot.
So previous to this, like you mentioned,
there's frameworks like Flask and Django.
And whenever you wanted to, a Python developer
to make a web app, they use something like this,
but you always have to pair it
with another front-end library.
So you can't just make your front-end using Python,
you still have to end up using JavaScript, HTML, React,
stuff like that for your front-end.
And so a lot of people,
if you're coming from a Python background,
it's a lot of work to kind of get started with these,
it's a different language, different tool set.
So we really wanted something where Python developers
can just use these tools they already know
and be able to make these web apps
without having to go learn something completely different.
So as opposed to these tools like Flask and Django,
we're very focused on unifying the front-end and back-end
into one framework, so you don't need a separate front end
and back end.
And that allows us to kind of-- the user can just
focus on the logic of their app and not
kind of these technical details on the networking
and all this other stuff.
Yeah, it sounds interesting.
I mean, I know many Python people
who don't want to do JavaScript.
They don't want to do multiple languages.
But it's traditionally, at least in the web framework world,
you're speaking many, many languages.
You're speaking HTML, CSS, JavaScript is a big one.
And honestly, I think there was a period
where people were super invested in JavaScript
and thought that was kind of the right way
or the necessary way.
And that would take away a lot of,
well, what's important about the web framework, right?
Like, well, it doesn't matter if it's Flask or Django,
we're just gonna return JSON anyway,
'cause it's all Angular, so who cares, right?
But I don't think that's where people really,
many people, at least the people choosing Python, want to be.
And so how is your stuff different?
So I think exactly what you said before this,
to make a serious web app, you always have to go to JavaScript.
And what we're really trying to do
is make everything in Python, including your front end.
And so basically, we're trying to integrate the two together.
So basically, you don't have to go
learn these technical details you didn't want before.
We realized for all the logic of your app,
you're using Python anyway.
like Python's used in so many industries,
databases, ML, AI, infrastructure.
And when these people want to make a front end,
it is possible to make JavaScript
or these JavaScript front ends,
but that's a lot of overhead.
And before our kind of our framework,
there are different low-code tools
to make front ends without JavaScript,
but they all kind of have a limit
and they all have a graduation risk is what we found.
So you can start making your UI.
- Yeah, so like-
- Can you make any website with them?
- Right, like Streamlit and Anvil
are both notable ones that kind of come to mind.
But neither of them, I like them both a lot,
but neither of them are necessarily,
I'm just gonna build a general purpose web app.
They're focused in their particular area.
- Yes, exactly.
So I've used tools like Streamlit, Gradio in the past,
and a lot of that was inspiration for Pinecone.
It's really great 'cause it's super easy to get started with.
You don't have to go learn these things.
But they all have this kind of ceiling you hit.
So they're mostly good for data science apps, dashboard apps.
But as you try to expand your app
into a full stack web app, start adding these new features,
A lot of times you find these frameworks don't really scale with your ideas.
And your two options are either you have to kind of constrain your idea into what these
vendors offer you, or you use that for prototyping and when you're making a customer-facing production
app, you scrap it and go to like a JavaScript React world.
So what we're really trying to do is make something like these Anvil or Streamlit easy
to get started with for Python developers.
But as you want to expand to these complex cases, you should be able to stay in our framework
and we should be able to handle that also.
- Interesting.
- How does the front end interactivity work if it's Python?
- Yeah, and this is also where I think we're a bit different.
We're trying to really leverage a lot of the web dev ecosystem
and not recreate everything from scratch.
So for the front end, we leverage React and Next.js.
So our front end compiles down to a Next.js app.
And from this--
- Oh, you're transpiling the Python to--
- We transpile the Python to Next.js.
And this gives you a lot of great features.
You get single page app features from Next.js, a lot of these performance
features.
And that means from our perspective, we
don't have to recreate all this stuff.
And also, we don't have to create components one by one.
we just leverage React.
And for what we do in Pinecone for the front end
is we just wrap React components and make them accessible.
So even if we don't offer something,
and other low-code tools,
sometimes if they don't offer a component you need,
you may be kind of constrained in what you can build.
We easily have a way for anyone
to wrap their own third-party React libraries.
So we're really trying to make the existing stuff
out there accessible rather than recreating it.
- Yeah, so you can sort of extend it with React
if you get boxed in, that's your escape hatch?
- Exactly.
- Okay.
That's kind of how our front end works,
and for the back end, we use FastAPI
to handle all the states.
So the user state is all on the back end on the server,
and this is what allows us to
pretty much keep everything in Python.
So none of the logic is transpiled to JavaScript,
only the React, and all the logic stays in Python.
So you can use any of your existing Python libraries,
any existing tools.
You don't have to wait for us
to kind of make these integrations.
So it's kind of leveraging React,
but also leveraging Python,
and kind of bringing them together.
- What's the deployment look like?
- So we're working on a easy deployment,
So you can just type PC deploy,
we'll set up all your infrastructure,
and you'll get a URL back with your app live.
But also we're an open source framework,
so it's also very easy to self-host and self-deploy.
And so what we're really trying to do
is make it accessible and easy,
but never kind of lock you into our framework.
- I see, so I could put like Nginx in front of it
or something like that. - Exactly.
Like so right now we're still working
on our hosting deployment,
so everyone right now who's deployed
is hosting on AWS DigitalOcean or a tool like this
with Nginx.
And so it integrates just like you would deploy
a Flask or React app.
- Got it.
- But we're really trying to make an optimized hosting
service around this later. Yeah, sure. It makes sense. All right. Sounds like a great products.
Thanks. Final question here. How'd you get here? How'd you start the company? How'd you land on
Startup Pro? I mean, you talked about Y Combinator a little. Yeah. So I talked a little bit. We did
the Y Combinator batch. And really the idea is not only having an open source framework,
but having like a business model around it and being able to create like these features around
it. So we're really focused on kind of being similar to have an open source framework,
similar to how Vercel has Next.js and their hosted version,
and trying to bring that to the Python community.
So Python is one of the fastest growing languages,
obviously, that's why PyCon is so big,
but for the web dev part,
there's not really a good ecosystem for that.
So when people want to share their ideas,
we're really trying to become that de facto way
for Python developers to create their apps and share.
And so, yeah, basically working on our hosting service,
growing out our team now,
and trying to build up all this ecosystem around it
so people can easily get their ideas out to the world.
- Awesome, well, congratulations and thanks for being here.
- Thank you, yeah, thanks so much.
- Yeah, you bet.